# 2021 AMC 12A
15. (2b2t)
16. solved
17. (geo)
18. solved
19. solved
20. (geo masquerading as conics)
21. 
22. Given a polynomial $P(x) = x^3 + ax^2 + bx + c$ with roots $\cos (\frac{2\pi}{7}), \cos (\frac{4\pi}{7}), \cos (\frac{6\pi}{7})$. Want to find $abc$.

$1 + e^{\frac{2i \pi}{7}} + e^{\frac{4i \pi}{7}} + e^{\frac{6i \pi}{7}} + e^{\frac{8i \pi}{7}} + e^{\frac{10i \pi}{7}} + e^{\frac{12i \pi}{7}} = 0 \implies \Re(1 + 2(e^{\frac{2i \pi}{7}}+e^{\frac{4i \pi}{7}}+e^{\frac{6i \pi}{7}})) = 0 \implies \cos (\frac{2\pi}{7}) + \cos (\frac{4\pi}{7}) + \cos (\frac{6\pi}{7}) = -\frac{1}{2}$. We let $x = \cos(2 \pi/7)$. Then our polynomial is just created by $x + 2x^2-1 + 4x^3-3x = -\frac{1}{2}$. We have $4x^3 + 2x^2 - 3x + x - 1 = -1/2 \implies x^3 + \frac{1}{2}x^2 - \frac{1}{2}x - \frac{1}{8} = 0 \implies abc=32$.

Originally planned on Vieta's but then I realized that I assumed some things that were not true and my solution was overall very sketch. Then went back to the drawing board and found some nice roots of unity properties.

23. Given a $3 \times 3$ grid, we can go up, down, left, or right in each move. If we are ever to fall off we wrap around and hop to the opposite cell. Find the probability that a random sequence of 4 moves hits a corner cell, ever.

This is just casework and complementary counting.
We count the number of sequences of 4 moves that don't hit.
**Case 1**: All in up/down or left/right only.
There are two ways to choose the orientation and $2^4=16$ ways to choose which direction to go at each step, so there are $32$ ways.
**Case 2**: One left/right at the beginning or end and the rest up/down.
Note that we will need to go up 3 times or down 3 times for this to spare the corners. We have 2 ways to choose where to put the left/right, 2 ways to choose whether it is left or right, and 2 ways to choose whether it's up or down. There are $8$ ways here.
**Case 3**: One up/down at the beginning or end and the rest left/right.
Also 8 ways
**Case 4**: One in each direction.
Needs to be (UD)(LR), the UD and LR each being swappable and the order of (UD) and (LR) being swappable. Therefore, there are $2^3=8$ ways.
There are a total of $56$ ways to not satisfy the condition, or probability $\frac{7}{32}$. Therefore, the answer is $\frac{25}{32}$.

This question actually wasn't that hard as the casework was really easy. Super misplaced problem that I didn't even get to during the contest. This is exactly what I mean by not reading 23-25 was a mistake. To be fair, the problem statement also was pretty long so I was intimidated, and I only had like 3 minutes left when I went back again.